Update Brainstorm README to describe how the app uses the data model (#251)
microsoft/FluidExamples: brainstorm/README.md

## Getting Started

> ### Follow the steps below to run this in local mode (Tinylicious):

Author: Removed the header symbol 🙂

1. Run `npm install` from the brainstorm folder root
2. Run `npx tinylicious` to start the "Tinylicious" test service
3. Run `npm run start` to start the client

> 5. Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` in a browser tab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` in a browser tab
```

<br />

| :memo: NOTE                                                                                              |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Tinylicious is a local, self-contained test service. By running `npx tinylicious` from your terminal window will launch the Tinylicious server. The server will need to be started first in order to provide the ordering and storage requirement of Fluid runtime.                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Tinylicious is a local, self-contained test service. Running `npx tinylicious` from your terminal window will launch the Tinylicious server. The server will need to be started first in order to provide the ordering and storage requirement of Fluid runtime.                                                         |
```

<br />

> ### Follow the steps below to run this in remote mode (Routerlicious):

Reviewer: Let's refer to Routerlicious here and below as Azure Fluid Relay service, since that's the "official" naming and that's what devs will see when onboarding from the Azure portal. Otherwise, users may get confused as to what Routerlicious refers to 😄

Author: yeah, I was a bit confused on when to use which term myself too 😅

1. Run `npm install` from the brainstorm folder root

> 2. Run `npm run start:frs` to start the "Routerlicious" test service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run `npm run start:frs` to connect to the Azure Fluid Relay service
```

> 5. Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` in a browser tab

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Navigate to `http://localhost:3000` in a browser tab
```

<br />

| :memo: NOTE                                                                                              |
|:---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Routerlicious is a main composed server definition that pulls together multiple micro-services that provide the ordering and storage requirement of Fluid runtime. By running `npm run start:frs` from your terminal window, the environment variable `REACT_APP_FLUID_CLIENT` will be set first, which will be picked up by the `useFrs` flag, and `FrsConnectionConfig` will use the remote mode config format. Then, the command will starts the server.                                                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Azure Fluid Relay service is a deployed service implementation that pulls together multiple micro-services that provide the ordering and storage requirement of Fluid runtime. By running `npm run start:frs` from your terminal window, the environment variable `REACT_APP_FLUID_CLIENT` will be set first, which will be picked up by the `useFrs` flag, and `FrsConnectionConfig` will use the remote mode config format. Please use the values provided as part of the service onboarding process to fill in this configuration. Then, the command will connect to your service instance.                                                                            |
```

Reviewer: The command just connects the developer to their already deployed instance. The service itself gets started when the developer creates it from the Azure portal (like it was demoed at readout) and then they get the id, key, and orderer and storage URLs from there

Author: I think I have yet to fully understand how Routerlicious works, but this clarifies a lot! 😃

To run this follow the steps below:

1. Run `npm install` from the brainstorm folder root

> 2. Run `npx tinylicious` to start the "Tinylicious" test service

Author: good call. I added more context explaining each server

2. Create another chrome tab with `http://localhost:3000/**#1621961220840**`

Now you can create notes, write text, change colors and more!

## Connecting to the Service

> By configuring the `FrsConnectionConfig` that we pass into the `FrsClient` instance, we can connect to both live FRS instance by passing in the tenant ID, orderer and storage as well as using the tenant ID as "local" for running against Tinylicious for development purpose. The `FrsConnectionConfig` is defined by the `connectionConfig` constant in [Config.ts](./src/Config.ts).

Reviewer 2: Take another pass at this sentence. Bit too long and hard to follow the 2nd half.

Reviewer 2: we probably don't need to dive too deep into FRS vs tinylicious. We use this pattern in all of our examples.

Author: I agree, but I also feel like having more context/explanation won't hurt as long as it doesn't divert from the topic too much? It also easier for developer to just get a brief overview and if they want to read more about FRS vs Tinylicious they can go and read the docs for it?

Author: Another solution is I can remove the 2 bullet points explaining FRS vs Tinylicious and just include the code snippet of what the `FrsConnectionConfig` should look like.

Reviewer: Yeah, I think providing some context for the devs in the example READMEs would be helpful since we don't know what other documentation/examples they are coming from. If this is say the first example they're seeing, having the distinction between local vs remote, and how to set up the config for each would be helpful for them to understand what's happening in the code. Also, I like the rephrased content 😄

> - Running `FrsClient` against local Tinylicious instance

Reviewer: We should have a paragraph here to guide the user to how the config gets picked up to instantiate the FrsClient in index.ts and how its used for the create/getContainer calls. Essentially this README should act as a guide that readers can use to navigate through the code, in case they want to modify it later on.

    - To run against our local Tinylicious instance, we pass the `tenantId` as "local" and make use of `InsecureTokenProvider`. The `InsecureTokenProvider` requires we pass in two values to its constructor: a key string, which can be anything since we are running it locally, and an IUser type object identifying the current user. For running the instance locally, the orderer and storage URLs would point to the Tinylicious instance on the default values of `http://localhost:7070`.

---
**NOTE**

To launch the local Tinylicious service instance, run `npx tinylicious` from your terminal window

---

- Running `FrsClient` against live FRS instance

>     - To run against live FRS Instance, tenant ID, orderer and storage URLs are required. We make use of `FrsAzFunctionTokenProvider` which takes in the Azure function URL and an IUser type object identifying the current user, thereby making an axios `GET` request call to the Azure Function. This axios call takes in the tenant ID, documentId and userID/userName as optional parameters. The Azure Function is responsible for mapping the `tenantId` to tenant key secret to generate and sign the token such that the service will accept it.

Reviewer 3: Its not the `IUser` interface but rather the `FrsAzFuncUser` interface being exported from the client package

Author: I'm not seeing a `FrsAzFuncUser` type, instead, I see a ` Pick<FrsMember, "userId" | "userName">`, which I think extracts the `userId` and `userName` from the `FrsMember` type.

Reviewer: Yep, instead of `IUser` listing out the `"userId" | "userName" | "additionalDetails"` parameters as the ones they need to pass in would be great

> To add more versatility, we also incorporated the `useFrs` flag. Depending on the npm command you run (`npm run start` or `npm run start:frs`), the flag will toggle between local and remote mode using the same config format. We make use of `FrsAzFunctionTokenProvider` for running against live FRS instance since it is more secured, without exposing the tenant secret key in the client-side code whereas while running the service locally for development purpose, we make use of `InsecureTokenProvider`.

Reviewer: I think the `npm run start:frs` command needs to get specified in the above paragraph as the way to use the FRS service. Also consider adding a bit of context for what the command does (i.e. set the environment variable that gets picked up to set the `useFrs` flag)

Author: good point, I separated the `getting started` section into 2, local and remote modes.

```ts
export const connectionConfig: FrsConnectionConfig = useFrs ? {
    tenantId: "YOUR-TENANT-ID-HERE",

>     tokenProvider: new FrsAzFunctionTokenProvider("AZURE-FUNCTION-URL"+"/api/GetFrsToken", { userId: "test-user", userName: "Test User" }),

Author: The current `connectionConfig` is still using `InsecureTokenProvider` for remote mode. Perhaps it's better to change it to `FrsAzFunctionTokenProvider`?

Reviewer: Sounds good to me!

    orderer: "ENTER-ORDERER-URL-HERE",
    storage: "ENTER-STORAGE-URL-HERE",
} : {
        tenantId: "local",
        tokenProvider: new InsecureTokenProvider("fooBar", user),
        orderer: "http://localhost:7070",
        storage: "http://localhost:7070",
    };
```

## Using `SharedMap` and Prefix Structure to Update Note States

> To keep track of changes made to individual notes, the LetsBrainstorm app make use of the `SharedMap` data structure from `FluidContainer` and the prefix structure. 

Reviewer: Let's add a description here of how this `SharedMap` gets specified in the containerSchema and how it matches up to the `initialObjects` returned here

Author: added a description of `SharedMap` and how it relates to `containerSchema` and `initialObjects` 😃

> The [BrainstormModel](./src/BrainstormModel.ts) defines various functions that are available to a note, including creating and deleting a note, getting likes, moving the note in the note space, changing the note text, and etc. These functions achieve their tasks by making changes to the properties associated with the note. All note properties, such as `noteId`s, `author`, `color`, `postition`, etc, are stored in a `SharedMap` as key-value pairs for easy retrieval. Now, to differentiate between different properties and notes, we make use of a prefix structure, where each key contains a prefix that indicates which property this key-value pair holds and for which note. 

Reviewer: Before jumping into the description of prefix usage, lets also describe how changes applied to the map sync back with the view. It should describe the usage of the `setChangeListener` function and how it gets called in the `useEffect` hook in `NoteSpace` to update the React state holding the local notes. This loop of applying a change to the DDS, listening to the `valueChanged` event, and then using it to update local state is an important piece of the understanding for devs to take away from the example.
Also consider adding a warning to not try to modify the local state directly as it won't cause any changes for remote clients

Author: Good point. I added more explanation for the loop. Let me know what you think 😀

```ts
sharedMap.set(c_AuthorPrefix + noteId, newCardData.author);
```

> While all the property prefixes are static, by attaching unique `noteId` to the end of the property prefix, we ensured that properties for each note are stored individually. Furthermore, with the use of `SharedMap`, state of each note can be updated promptly in real-time.

Reviewer: Consider walking through an example here of how one of the functions, perhaps `setNoteColor` get passed down from the model to its view component through props, and then in turn, how that action causes the `sharedMap` to trigger the `valueChanged` event. This in turn results in a new `notes` state being generated in the `syncLocalAndFluidState` function by:
1) getting the `noteIds` from the map
2) using the ids as prefixes in `createNote` to load the data for each individual note; a walkthrough of how `createNote` does this (especially for properties like `didILikeThisCalculated` that filter by user & noteId, would be great
3) applying a state update with our list of new notes. This ultimately results in the view updating.

Taking the dev through the whole loop as it is in the code may be helpful for understanding how the changes are getting applied.

## Using Audience to Render User Information
The LetsBrainstorm app make use of the audience property from `FrsContainerServices` to keep track of and render all user related information. 

> In the [BrainstormView](./src/BrainstormView.tsx), the audience property is used to display all active users currently in the session. It is also used to retrieve current user information so the user can be assigned as the author accordingly, such as when the user creates a note.

Reviewer: Similar to above, lets include a walkthrough of how these APIs are specifically being used in this application. I.e.
what listeners are being set on the audience object and why are we calling a state update on members whenever they are triggered. Consider including a code sample here from `BrainstormView` and walking through the different audience API calls being used and adding in the background context for why they are structured that way

    };
```

## Using `SharedMap` and Prefix Structure to Update Note States
To keep track of changes made to individual notes, the LetsBrainstorm app make use of the `SharedMap` data structure from `FluidContainer` and the prefix structure.

`SharedMap`, specified in `containerSchema`'s `initialObjects` property in [Config.ts](./src/Config.ts), will be loaded into memory when the `FluidContainer` is loaded and you can access them off the `FluidContainer` via the `initialObjects` property.

- Syncing `SharedMap` and View data
    - The [BrainstormModel](./src/BrainstormModel.ts) defines various functions that are available to a note, including creating and deleting a note, getting likes, moving the note in the note space, changing the note text, and etc. These functions achieve their tasks by making changes to the properties associated with the note. All note properties, such as `noteId`s, `author`, `color`, `postition`, etc, are stored in a `SharedMap` as key-value pairs for easy retrieval. Now, syncing our Fluid and View data requires that we set up an event listener, which mean we need a `useEffect()` hook, defined in [NoteSpace.tsx](./src/view/NoteSpace.tsx).

>     To sync the data, we created a `syncLocalAndFluidState()` function, called that function once to initialize the data, and then keep listening for the `SharedMap` "valueChanged" event in `setChangeListener()`, and fire the function again each time. Now React will handle updating the view each time the new `notes` state is modified.

Reviewer: The rewording here from the earlier commit looks great and I like the inclusion of the code sample. Could we move it up to be above the "To sync the data..." paragraph so that readers can get the code and then follow it up with the walkthrough of it?

Author: Yup I moved it up. The rewording was inspired by @micahgodbolt awesome CRA README! 😄

2. Create another chrome tab with `http://localhost:3000/**#1621961220840**`

Now you can create notes, write text, change colors and more!

## Connecting to the Service
By configuring the `FrsConnectionConfig` that we pass into the `FrsClient` instance, we can connect to both live FRS and Tinylicious instances. The `FrsConnectionConfig` is defined by the `connectionConfig` constant in [Config.ts](./src/Config.ts), which specifies the tenant ID, orderer and storage. By setting the tenant ID as "local", we allow for the `FrsClient` to run against Tinylicious for development purpose.

- Running `FrsClient` against local Tinylicious instance
    - To run against our local Tinylicious instance, we pass the `tenantId` as "local" and make use of `InsecureTokenProvider`. The `InsecureTokenProvider` requires we pass in two values to its constructor, a key string, which can be anything since we are running it locally, and an IUser type object identifying the current user. For running the instance locally, the orderer and storage URLs would point to the Tinylicious instance on the default values of `http://localhost:7070`.

- Running `FrsClient` against live FRS instance

>     - To run against live FRS Instance, tenant ID, orderer and storage URLs are required. We make use of `FrsAzFunctionTokenProvider` which takes in the Azure function URL and an optional `"userId" | "userName" | "additionalDetails"` type object identifying the current user, thereby making an axios `GET` request call to the Azure Function. This axios call takes in the tenant ID, documentId and userID/userName as optional parameters. The Azure Function is responsible for mapping the `tenantId` to tenant key secret to generate and sign the token such that the service will accept it.

Reviewer: Just a heads up that the `FrsClient` and `FrsAzFunctionTokenProvider` references will need to get updated to `AzureClient` and `AzureFunctionTokenProvider` once we have our next release due to the renaming. Its fine for now though as it matches the code

Author: sounds good!!

To add more versatility, we also incorporated the `useFrs` flag. Depending on the npm command you run (`npm run start` or `npm run start:frs`), the flag will toggle between local and remote mode using the same config format. We make use of `FrsAzFunctionTokenProvider` for running against live FRS instance since it is more secured, without exposing the tenant secret key in the client-side code whereas while running the service locally for development purpose, we make use of `InsecureTokenProvider`.

```ts
export const connectionConfig: FrsConnectionConfig = useFrs ? {
    tenantId: "YOUR-TENANT-ID-HERE",
    tokenProvider: new FrsAzFunctionTokenProvider("AZURE-FUNCTION-URL"+"/api/GetFrsToken", { userId: "test-user", userName: "Test User" }),
    orderer: "ENTER-ORDERER-URL-HERE",
    storage: "ENTER-STORAGE-URL-HERE",
} : {
        tenantId: "local",
        tokenProvider: new InsecureTokenProvider("fooBar", user),
        orderer: "http://localhost:7070",
        storage: "http://localhost:7070",
    };
```

> ## Using `SharedMap` and Prefix Structure to Update Note States

Reviewer: I **love** the writing in this section!! Awesome walkthrough!! 😍

Author: thanks! I got a lot of inspirations from other demo READMEs 😛

> To keep track of changes made to individual notes, the LetsBrainstorm app make use of the `SharedMap` data structure from `FluidContainer` and the prefix structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To keep track of changes made to individual notes, the LetsBrainstorm app makes use of the `SharedMap` data structure from `FluidContainer` and a prefix-based structuring of our data for tracking different properties.
```

1. Get the `NoteIds` from the map
2. Use the IDs as prefixes in `createNote()` to load the data for each individual note. 
    - `createNote()` will take the `noteId` that's passed in as argument to retrieve each note property from `SharedMap` and populate the new note. Attributes like `didLikeThisCalculated` also filters the retrieved value by `user` and `noteId` to generate unique view from the user's perspective.
3. Apply a state update with our list of new notes.
    - With our newly generated and updated list of new notes, we call `setNotes` to update the React state. This updated React state will propagate the changes to all remote clients, resulting in the view updating.

## Using Audience to Render User Information
The LetsBrainstorm app make use of the `audience` property from `FrsContainerServices` to keep track of and render all user related information. 

In the [BrainstormView](./src/BrainstormView.tsx), the audience property is used to achieve 2 tasks, display all active users currently in the session, and retrieve current user information so the user can be assigned as the author accordingly, such as when the user creates a note.

> Similar to how `BrainstormModel` works in [NoteSpace.tsx](./src/view/NoteSpace.tsx), the member values of the audience property is also being tracked as a React state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to how `BrainstormModel` works in [NoteSpace.tsx](./src/view/NoteSpace.tsx), the member values of the audience property are also being tracked in a React state.
```

```ts
const [members, setMembers] = React.useState(Array.from(audience.getMembers().values()));
```

Just like `setChangeListener()` calling `syncLocalAndFluidState()` on a `valueChanged` event described in the previous section, a listener on the `audeince.getMembers()` property is actively listening for a `"membersChanged"` event. When the event occurs, the listener will call the `setMembersCallback()` method.

```ts
const setMembersCallback = React.useCallback(() => setMembers(
    Array.from(
      audience.getMembers().values()
    )
  ), [setMembers, audience]);
```

> The `setMembersCallback()` retreives a list of all the active members and convert it to an array. This array is then used by `setMembers` to update the React state of active users when new clients join or leave the session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `setMembersCallback()` retrieves a list of all the active members and convert it to an array. This array is then used by `setMembers` to update the React state of active users when new clients join or leave the session.
```

> Now, audience also has a `getMyself()` property to get the current client as a member. By passing this into the view, [NoteSpace.tsx](./src/view/NoteSpace.tsx), as props, this allows the user to be assigned as author whenever the user creates a note.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, audience also has a `getMyself()` property to get the current client as a member. Passing this into the view, [NoteSpace.tsx](./src/view/NoteSpace.tsx), as props, allows the user to be assigned as author whenever the user creates a note.
```

Now you can create notes, write text, change colors and more!

## Connecting to the Service
By configuring the `FrsConnectionConfig` that we pass into the `FrsClient` instance, we can connect to both live FRS and Tinylicious instances. The `FrsConnectionConfig` is defined by the `connectionConfig` constant in [Config.ts](./src/Config.ts), which specifies the tenant ID, orderer and storage. 

Now, before you can access any Fluid data, you need to define your container schema after creating a configured `FrsClient` using `FrsConnectionConfig`.

> - `containerSchema`, also defined in [Config.ts](./src/Config.ts), is going to include a string `name` and a collection of the data types our application will use.

Reviewer: May want to also include a code sample from Config.ts of the `containerSchema` here just to have them side-by-side

Author: added!

Inside [index.tsx](./src/index.tsx), we defined a `start()` function that uses `getContainerId()` to return a unique ID and determine if this is an existing document (`getContainer()`) or if we need to create a new one (`createContainer()`).

```ts
export async function start() {
    initializeIcons();
    const getContainerId = (): { containerId: string; isNew: boolean } => {
        let isNew = false;
        if (location.hash.length === 0) {
            isNew = true;
            location.hash = Date.now().toString();
        }
        const containerId = location.hash.substring(1);
        return { containerId, isNew };
    };

    const { containerId, isNew } = getContainerId();

    const client = new FrsClient(connectionConfig);

    const frsResources = isNew
        ? await client.createContainer({ id: containerId }, containerSchema)
        : await client.getContainer({ id: containerId }, containerSchema);
    ...
}
```

> Since `start()` is an async function, we'll need to await for the initialObjects to be returned. Once returned, each initialObjects key will point to a connected data structure as defined in the schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since `start()` is an async function, we'll need to await for the `initialObjects` to be returned. Once returned, each `initialObjects` key will point to a connected data structure as defined in the schema.
```

Reviewer: nit
